docs/cudf/source/cudf_pandas/usage.md, before:

# Usage

## Jupyter Notebooks and IPython

Load the `cudf.pandas` extension at the beginning of your
notebook. After that, just `import pandas` and operations will use the
GPU:

```python
%load_ext cudf.pandas

import pandas as pd

URL = "https://github.com/plotly/datasets/raw/master/tips.csv"
df = pd.read_csv(URL)                 # uses the GPU
df["size"].value_counts()             # uses the GPU
df.groupby("size").total_bill.mean()  # uses the GPU
df.apply(list, axis=1)                # uses the CPU (fallback)
```

## Command-line usage

From the command line, run your Python scripts with `-m cudf.pandas`:

```bash
python -m cudf.pandas script.py
```

## Understanding performance - the `cudf.pandas` profiler

`cudf.pandas` will attempt to use the GPU whenever possible and fall
back to CPU for certain operations. Running your code with the
`cudf.pandas.profile` magic generates a report showing which
operations used the GPU and which used the CPU. This can help you
identify parts of your code that could be rewritten to be more
GPU-friendly:

```python
%load_ext cudf.pandas
import pandas as pd
```

```python
%%cudf.pandas.profile
df = pd.DataFrame({'a': [0, 1, 2], 'b': [3,4,3]})

df.min(axis=1)
out = df.groupby('a').filter(
    lambda group: len(group) > 1
)
```

![cudf-pandas-profile](../_static/cudf-pandas-profile.png)

When an operation falls back to using the CPU, it's typically because
that operation isn't implemented by cuDF. The profiler generates a
handy link to report the missing functionality to the cuDF team.

To profile a script being run from the command-line, pass the
`--profile` argument:

```bash
python -m cudf.pandas --profile script.py
```

Commit message:

Document how to use cudf.pandas in tandem with multiprocessing (#15940)
We need to arrange that cudf.pandas.install() is run on the workers, this requires that we programmatically install the metapath loader in our script. Unfortunately, passing an initializer function to the pool startup is not sufficient if any part of the script transitively loads pandas at the top level.

- Closes #15246

Authors:
  - Lawrence Mitchell (https://github.com/wence-)

Approvers:
  - GALI PREM SAGAR (https://github.com/galipremsagar)

URL: https://github.com/rapidsai/cudf/pull/15940

docs/cudf/source/cudf_pandas/usage.md, after:

# Usage

## Jupyter Notebooks and IPython

Load the `cudf.pandas` extension at the beginning of your
notebook. After that, just `import pandas` and operations will use the
GPU:

```python
%load_ext cudf.pandas

import pandas as pd

URL = "https://github.com/plotly/datasets/raw/master/tips.csv"
df = pd.read_csv(URL)                 # uses the GPU
df["size"].value_counts()             # uses the GPU
df.groupby("size").total_bill.mean()  # uses the GPU
df.apply(list, axis=1)                # uses the CPU (fallback)
```

## Command-line usage

From the command line, run your Python scripts with `-m cudf.pandas`:

```bash
python -m cudf.pandas script.py
```

### Usage in tandem with
[`multiprocessing`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/multiprocessing.html)
or
[`concurrent.futures`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/concurrent.futures.html)
process pools

To use a pool of workers (for example
[`multiprocessing.Pool`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/multiprocessing.html#multiprocessing.pool.Pool)
or
[`concurrent.futures.ProcessPoolExecutor`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/concurrent.futures.html#concurrent.futures.ProcessPoolExecutor))
in your script with `cudf.pandas`, the `cudf.pandas` module must be
loaded on the worker processes, as well as by the controlling script.
The most foolproof way to do this is to programmatically install
`cudf.pandas` at the top of your script, before anything else.
For example

```python
# This is equivalent to python -m cudf.pandas, but will run on the
# workers too. These two lines must run before pandas is imported,
# either directly or transitively.
import cudf.pandas
cudf.pandas.install()

from multiprocessing import Pool

with Pool(4) as pool:
    # use pool here
    ...
```

## Understanding performance - the `cudf.pandas` profiler

`cudf.pandas` will attempt to use the GPU whenever possible and fall
back to CPU for certain operations. Running your code with the
`cudf.pandas.profile` magic generates a report showing which
operations used the GPU and which used the CPU. This can help you
identify parts of your code that could be rewritten to be more
GPU-friendly:

```python
%load_ext cudf.pandas
import pandas as pd
```

```python
%%cudf.pandas.profile
df = pd.DataFrame({'a': [0, 1, 2], 'b': [3,4,3]})

df.min(axis=1)
out = df.groupby('a').filter(
    lambda group: len(group) > 1
)
```

![cudf-pandas-profile](../_static/cudf-pandas-profile.png)

When an operation falls back to using the CPU, it's typically because
that operation isn't implemented by cuDF. The profiler generates a
handy link to report the missing functionality to the cuDF team.

To profile a script being run from the command-line, pass the
`--profile` argument:

```bash
python -m cudf.pandas --profile script.py
```
