java/ci/README.md, before:

# Build Jar artifact of cuDF

## Build the docker image

### Prerequisite

1. Docker should be installed.
2. [nvidia-docker](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker) should be installed.

### Build the docker image

In the root path of cuDF repo, run below command to build the docker image.
```bash
docker build -f java/ci/Dockerfile.centos7 --build-arg CUDA_VERSION=11.8.0 -t cudf-build:11.8.0-devel-centos7 .
```

The following CUDA versions are supported w/ CUDA Enhanced Compatibility:
* CUDA 11.0+

Change the --build-arg CUDA_VERSION to what you need.
You can replace the tag "cudf-build:11.8.0-devel-centos7" with another name you like.

## Start the docker then build

### Start the docker

Run below command to start a docker container with GPU.
```bash
nvidia-docker run -it cudf-build:11.8.0-devel-centos7 bash
```

### Download the cuDF source code

You can download the cuDF repo in the docker container or you can mount it into the container.
Here I choose to download again in the container.
```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/rapidsai/cudf.git -b branch-24.06
```

### Build cuDF jar with devtoolset

```bash
cd cudf
export WORKSPACE=`pwd`
scl enable devtoolset-11 "java/ci/build-in-docker.sh"
```

### The output

You can find the cuDF jar in java/target/ like cudf-24.06.0-SNAPSHOT-cuda11.jar.

Commit message:

Drop Centos7 support (#15608)
To fix https://github.com/rapidsai/cudf/issues/15583

We plan to drop CentOS 7 (which uses glibc 2.17) RAPIDS 24.06. The [java/ci/Dockerfile.centos7](https://github.com/rapidsai/cudf/blob/branch-24.06/java/ci/Dockerfile.centos7), refor or to :

https://docs.rapids.ai/notices/rsn0037/

https://github.com/rapidsai/build-planning/issues/23

Change to run build in Rocky8 docker container

Authors:
  - Tim Liu (https://github.com/NvTimLiu)
  - Bradley Dice (https://github.com/bdice)

Approvers:
  - Jason Lowe (https://github.com/jlowe)
  - Bradley Dice (https://github.com/bdice)
  - Ray Douglass (https://github.com/raydouglass)

URL: https://github.com/rapidsai/cudf/pull/15608

java/ci/README.md, after:

# Build Jar artifact of cuDF

## Build the docker image

### Prerequisite

1. Docker should be installed.
2. [nvidia-docker](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker) should be installed.

### Build the docker image

In the root path of cuDF repo, run below command to build the docker image.
```bash
docker build -f java/ci/Dockerfile.rocky --build-arg CUDA_VERSION=11.8.0 -t cudf-build:11.8.0-devel-rocky8 .
```

The following CUDA versions are supported w/ CUDA Enhanced Compatibility:
* CUDA 11.0+

Change the --build-arg CUDA_VERSION to what you need.
You can replace the tag "cudf-build:11.8.0-devel-rocky8" with another name you like.

## Start the docker then build

### Start the docker

Run below command to start a docker container with GPU.
```bash
nvidia-docker run -it cudf-build:11.8.0-devel-rocky8 bash
```

### Download the cuDF source code

You can download the cuDF repo in the docker container or you can mount it into the container.
Here I choose to download again in the container.
```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/rapidsai/cudf.git -b branch-24.06
```

### Build cuDF jar with devtoolset

```bash
cd cudf
export WORKSPACE=`pwd`
scl enable gcc-toolset-11 "java/ci/build-in-docker.sh"
```

### The output

You can find the cuDF jar in java/target/ like cudf-24.06.0-SNAPSHOT-cuda11.jar.
