docs/cudf/source/api_docs/dataframe.rst, before:

=========
DataFrame
=========
.. currentmodule:: cudf

Constructor
~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/
   :template: autosummary/class_with_autosummary.rst

   DataFrame

Attributes and underlying data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
**Axes**

.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.axes
   DataFrame.index
   DataFrame.columns

.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.dtypes
   DataFrame.info
   DataFrame.select_dtypes
   DataFrame.values
   DataFrame.ndim
   DataFrame.size
   DataFrame.shape
   DataFrame.memory_usage
   DataFrame.empty

Conversion
~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.astype
   DataFrame.copy

Indexing, iteration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.head
   DataFrame.at
   DataFrame.iat
   DataFrame.loc
   DataFrame.iloc
   DataFrame.insert
   DataFrame.__iter__
   DataFrame.items
   DataFrame.keys
   DataFrame.iterrows
   DataFrame.itertuples
   DataFrame.pop
   DataFrame.tail
   DataFrame.isin
   DataFrame.where
   DataFrame.mask
   DataFrame.query

Binary operator functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.add
   DataFrame.sub
   DataFrame.subtract
   DataFrame.mul
   DataFrame.multiply
   DataFrame.truediv
   DataFrame.div
   DataFrame.divide
   DataFrame.floordiv
   DataFrame.mod
   DataFrame.pow
   DataFrame.dot
   DataFrame.radd
   DataFrame.rsub
   DataFrame.rmul
   DataFrame.rdiv
   DataFrame.rtruediv
   DataFrame.rfloordiv
   DataFrame.rmod
   DataFrame.rpow
   DataFrame.round
   DataFrame.lt
   DataFrame.gt
   DataFrame.le
   DataFrame.ge
   DataFrame.ne
   DataFrame.eq
   DataFrame.product

Function application, GroupBy & window
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.apply
   DataFrame.applymap
   DataFrame.apply_chunks
   DataFrame.apply_rows
   DataFrame.pipe
   DataFrame.agg
   DataFrame.groupby
   DataFrame.rolling

.. _api.dataframe.stats:

Computations / descriptive stats
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.abs
   DataFrame.all
   DataFrame.any
   DataFrame.clip
   DataFrame.corr
   DataFrame.count
   DataFrame.cov
   DataFrame.cummax
   DataFrame.cummin
   DataFrame.cumprod
   DataFrame.cumsum
   DataFrame.describe
   DataFrame.diff
   DataFrame.kurt
   DataFrame.kurtosis
   DataFrame.max
   DataFrame.mean
   DataFrame.median
   DataFrame.min
   DataFrame.mode
   DataFrame.pct_change
   DataFrame.prod
   DataFrame.product
   DataFrame.quantile
   DataFrame.quantiles
   DataFrame.rank
   DataFrame.round
   DataFrame.skew
   DataFrame.sum
   DataFrame.sum_of_squares
   DataFrame.std
   DataFrame.var
   DataFrame.nunique
   DataFrame.value_counts

Reindexing / selection / label manipulation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.add_prefix
   DataFrame.add_suffix
   DataFrame.drop
   DataFrame.drop_duplicates
   DataFrame.equals
   DataFrame.first
   DataFrame.head
   DataFrame.last
   DataFrame.reindex
   DataFrame.rename
   DataFrame.reset_index
   DataFrame.sample
   DataFrame.searchsorted
   DataFrame.set_index
   DataFrame.repeat
   DataFrame.tail
   DataFrame.take
   DataFrame.tile
   DataFrame.truncate

.. _api.dataframe.missing:

Missing data handling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.backfill
   DataFrame.bfill
   DataFrame.dropna
   DataFrame.ffill
   DataFrame.fillna
   DataFrame.interpolate
   DataFrame.isna
   DataFrame.isnull
   DataFrame.nans_to_nulls
   DataFrame.notna
   DataFrame.notnull
   DataFrame.pad
   DataFrame.replace

Reshaping, sorting, transposing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.argsort
   DataFrame.interleave_columns
   DataFrame.partition_by_hash
   DataFrame.pivot
   DataFrame.pivot_table
   DataFrame.scatter_by_map
   DataFrame.sort_values
   DataFrame.sort_index
   DataFrame.nlargest
   DataFrame.nsmallest
   DataFrame.stack
   DataFrame.unstack
   DataFrame.melt
   DataFrame.explode
   DataFrame.to_struct
   DataFrame.T
   DataFrame.transpose

Combining / comparing / joining / merging
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.append
   DataFrame.assign
   DataFrame.join
   DataFrame.merge
   DataFrame.update

Time Series-related
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.shift
   DataFrame.resample

Serialization / IO / conversion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.from_arrow
   DataFrame.from_pandas
   DataFrame.from_records
   DataFrame.hash_values
   DataFrame.to_arrow
   DataFrame.to_dlpack
   DataFrame.to_parquet
   DataFrame.to_csv
   DataFrame.to_cupy
   DataFrame.to_hdf
   DataFrame.to_dict
   DataFrame.to_json
   DataFrame.to_numpy
   DataFrame.to_pandas
   DataFrame.to_feather
   DataFrame.to_records
   DataFrame.to_string

Commit message:

Add support for `DataFrame.from_dict`\`to_dict` and `Series.to_dict` (#12048)
Resolves: #11934 

- [x] Adds `DataFrame.from_dict` and `DataFrame.to_dict`
- [x] Adds `Series.to_dict`

Authors:
  - GALI PREM SAGAR (https://github.com/galipremsagar)

Approvers:
  - Vyas Ramasubramani (https://github.com/vyasr)
  - Lawrence Mitchell (https://github.com/wence-)

URL: https://github.com/rapidsai/cudf/pull/12048

docs/cudf/source/api_docs/dataframe.rst, after:

=========
DataFrame
=========
.. currentmodule:: cudf

Constructor
~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/
   :template: autosummary/class_with_autosummary.rst

   DataFrame

Attributes and underlying data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
**Axes**

.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.axes
   DataFrame.index
   DataFrame.columns

.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.dtypes
   DataFrame.info
   DataFrame.select_dtypes
   DataFrame.values
   DataFrame.ndim
   DataFrame.size
   DataFrame.shape
   DataFrame.memory_usage
   DataFrame.empty

Conversion
~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.astype
   DataFrame.copy

Indexing, iteration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.head
   DataFrame.at
   DataFrame.iat
   DataFrame.loc
   DataFrame.iloc
   DataFrame.insert
   DataFrame.__iter__
   DataFrame.items
   DataFrame.keys
   DataFrame.iterrows
   DataFrame.itertuples
   DataFrame.pop
   DataFrame.tail
   DataFrame.isin
   DataFrame.where
   DataFrame.mask
   DataFrame.query

Binary operator functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.add
   DataFrame.sub
   DataFrame.subtract
   DataFrame.mul
   DataFrame.multiply
   DataFrame.truediv
   DataFrame.div
   DataFrame.divide
   DataFrame.floordiv
   DataFrame.mod
   DataFrame.pow
   DataFrame.dot
   DataFrame.radd
   DataFrame.rsub
   DataFrame.rmul
   DataFrame.rdiv
   DataFrame.rtruediv
   DataFrame.rfloordiv
   DataFrame.rmod
   DataFrame.rpow
   DataFrame.round
   DataFrame.lt
   DataFrame.gt
   DataFrame.le
   DataFrame.ge
   DataFrame.ne
   DataFrame.eq
   DataFrame.product

Function application, GroupBy & window
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.apply
   DataFrame.applymap
   DataFrame.apply_chunks
   DataFrame.apply_rows
   DataFrame.pipe
   DataFrame.agg
   DataFrame.groupby
   DataFrame.rolling

.. _api.dataframe.stats:

Computations / descriptive stats
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.abs
   DataFrame.all
   DataFrame.any
   DataFrame.clip
   DataFrame.corr
   DataFrame.count
   DataFrame.cov
   DataFrame.cummax
   DataFrame.cummin
   DataFrame.cumprod
   DataFrame.cumsum
   DataFrame.describe
   DataFrame.diff
   DataFrame.kurt
   DataFrame.kurtosis
   DataFrame.max
   DataFrame.mean
   DataFrame.median
   DataFrame.min
   DataFrame.mode
   DataFrame.pct_change
   DataFrame.prod
   DataFrame.product
   DataFrame.quantile
   DataFrame.quantiles
   DataFrame.rank
   DataFrame.round
   DataFrame.skew
   DataFrame.sum
   DataFrame.sum_of_squares
   DataFrame.std
   DataFrame.var
   DataFrame.nunique
   DataFrame.value_counts

Reindexing / selection / label manipulation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.add_prefix
   DataFrame.add_suffix
   DataFrame.drop
   DataFrame.drop_duplicates
   DataFrame.equals
   DataFrame.first
   DataFrame.head
   DataFrame.last
   DataFrame.reindex
   DataFrame.rename
   DataFrame.reset_index
   DataFrame.sample
   DataFrame.searchsorted
   DataFrame.set_index
   DataFrame.repeat
   DataFrame.tail
   DataFrame.take
   DataFrame.tile
   DataFrame.truncate

.. _api.dataframe.missing:

Missing data handling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.backfill
   DataFrame.bfill
   DataFrame.dropna
   DataFrame.ffill
   DataFrame.fillna
   DataFrame.interpolate
   DataFrame.isna
   DataFrame.isnull
   DataFrame.nans_to_nulls
   DataFrame.notna
   DataFrame.notnull
   DataFrame.pad
   DataFrame.replace

Reshaping, sorting, transposing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.argsort
   DataFrame.interleave_columns
   DataFrame.partition_by_hash
   DataFrame.pivot
   DataFrame.pivot_table
   DataFrame.scatter_by_map
   DataFrame.sort_values
   DataFrame.sort_index
   DataFrame.nlargest
   DataFrame.nsmallest
   DataFrame.stack
   DataFrame.unstack
   DataFrame.melt
   DataFrame.explode
   DataFrame.to_struct
   DataFrame.T
   DataFrame.transpose

Combining / comparing / joining / merging
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.append
   DataFrame.assign
   DataFrame.join
   DataFrame.merge
   DataFrame.update

Time Series-related
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.shift
   DataFrame.resample

Serialization / IO / conversion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. autosummary::
   :toctree: api/

   DataFrame.from_arrow
   DataFrame.from_dict
   DataFrame.from_pandas
   DataFrame.from_records
   DataFrame.hash_values
   DataFrame.to_arrow
   DataFrame.to_dict
   DataFrame.to_dlpack
   DataFrame.to_parquet
   DataFrame.to_csv
   DataFrame.to_cupy
   DataFrame.to_hdf
   DataFrame.to_dict
   DataFrame.to_json
   DataFrame.to_numpy
   DataFrame.to_pandas
   DataFrame.to_feather
   DataFrame.to_records
   DataFrame.to_string
